Start with the Overview of Java. Read some Java Development-related blogs and also research some Java Development-related things. For example read blogs on Introduction to Java, History of Java, and also topics like Is it Worth to Become a Java Developer in 2022, etc., etc., and make a complete mind makeup to start your journey on Java Development. Make yourself self-motivated to learn Java Development and build some awesome projects using Java. Do it regularly and also start learning one by one new concepts. It will be great to join some workshops or conferences on Java Development before you start your journey. 
1) Core Java 
In this particular Java Developer roadmap, the first thing you need to learn is Core Java. So in the core java, you need to learn the following major topics:

  Data Types and Variables
  Features and Architecture
  Operator and Expressions
  String Class
  Conditional Statements and Loops
  OOPs Concept in Depth
  Multithreading
  JAVA IO Streams
  Collection Framework
  Java 8

2) Advanced Java
After learning Core Java you need to learn the Advanced Java concepts. In this particular Advanced Java, you need to learn the following topics

  Design Pattern
  JVM
  Threads
  Servlet and JSP
  Concurrent Programming
  Garbage Collection
  Best Practice and Code Structure

In Advanced Java, you don’t need to learn everything in detail but you just be aware of all the above things and how those are working. And whenever you are working on these particular things you can read about them and you can implement them in your project. 


3) IDE’s
Once you are well versed with the core and advanced java you should be able to code java applications. So for that, you should know any of the following IDE’s 

  IntelliJ IDEA
  Eclipse
  Spring Tool Suite
  VS Code
You must be aware of the different shortcuts for your IDE whichever you are preferring so that it will optimize your workflow and increase your productivity for developing applications. 


4) Build Tools
Now all your java code should be built. So for building your Java project you must be aware of the different build tools. Some of the amazing tools that you can use for building your Java project are:

  Maven
  Gradle
  Ant


5) Servers
Once you have created your web application it’s time to deploy it. So you will be deploying your web application on the server so you must be aware of at least one server that you can work with. Tomcat is the most widely used server. Apart from that JBOSS is also used in many places. 

  Tomcat
  Weblogic
  JBOSS
  WebSphere
  Jetty

6) Database
Database plays an integral role in creating a Java application as storing data is a crucial aspect. So if you work in any organization you have to work with databases. You have to write the queries to execute different operations on a database. So some of the topics that you need to learn are:

  SQL
    ACID
    Joins
    Indexes
    Constraints
  Advanced SQL
    Procedures
    Packages
    Functions
    DBA
  NoSQL
    MongoDB
  ORM (Object-Relational Mapping)Framework
    JPA (Java Persistence API)
    Hibernate
    iBatis
    Spring Data JPA

7) Testing
Testing is a very important phase during your development journey. So you must be aware of how to test your Java application to minimize error and maximize efficiency. 

  Unit Testing
  Integration Testing
  Debugging Code (Must know)
  Junit
  Mockito


8) Logging
There are different logging libraries are available in Java. So whenever you create the Java application you should log your errors or files to get information about what’s happening in the system. You must be aware of any of the following Logging libraries

  Log4j
  Log4j2
  Log-back

9) Frameworks
There are a lot of different frameworks are available in Java. These frameworks foster easy debugging, extensive code reusability, improved code efficiency, and reduce the overall development time. So mentioned below are some of the Java Frameworks that you can learn:

  Spring
  Spring Boot
  Hibernate
  JSF
  GWT
Micronaut

10) Keep Practicing 
“Practice makes a man perfect” this phrase manifests the importance of continuous practice and learning. So keep learning, practicing, and stay updated.
